
The first one concerns substance: the description of such method, and
its comparison with other estimators, is overall a relatively minor
contribution, which I would deem suitable for an appendix to a more
substantive paper that exploits the scientifi value of the
estimator. For example, the authors report a rather strong departure
in the mass-concentration relation derived by Prada et al (2012) on
halo mass scales corresponding to L* galaxies. Such departure, if
true, would be quite intriguing, since observations should, in
principle, allow for constraints to be placed on the values of the
concentration on those scales. This issue, however, is not followed up
in the current paper. 

The second concern regards the method itself, as well as the detail
and exhaustiveness of the analysis. I would expect that any method to
estimate concentrations should become increasingly inaccurate and
possibly biased when the particle number is small. Furthermore, the
bias and uncertainty are likely  to also depend on the concentration
itself, since profiles (over the finite radial range probed by a
typical N-body realization) become increasingly indistinguishable for
low (or high) values of c. The analysis as reported does not discuss
any biases nor concentration dependence, a fairly significant omission
that detracts from the completeness and interest of this work. 

Finally, a comment on the method itself, where particles are ranked by
radius and compared with a theoretical cumulative mass profile. This
arrangement makes every point in the analysis dependent on the other,
so it is unclear how to assess the uncertainties on the  concentration
estimates derived from a least-squares fit. I would have liked to see
how those uncertainties (and possible biases, as argued above) depend
on particle number and on the true concentration, but there is no
mention of that in the paper. A superior alternative, in my opinion,
would be to consider the radial coordinate, r_i, of each particle
independently. The probability for each value of r_i, for given
concentration, could be easily estimated from rho(r,c)*r^2, where
rho(c,r) is a suitably normalized density profile. For any reasonable
prior, then the posterior distribution of Prob(c  given  r_i) could be
then inferred from the joint probability of all r_i and used to derive
realistic confidence inte! rvals.



