Dear Editor,

We thank the Referee for very useful comments that have helped us to
improve the paper.

In this version we have upgraded the data set used to test the method
on the N-body simulation. The new data set is now taken from the Bolshoi
simulation. This allows us to probe 4 orders of magnitude in halo mass
(instead of only 2 in the previous version), increasing by a factor
of 40 the number of halos used to derive statistics (we went to 64K
halos from 1.5K in the previous version). This allowed us to include
new tests on the robustness of the method. 

We realize that the new tests have added one full page to the body of
the paper, making it not suitable for publication as a Letter. 
Therefore, we ask the Editor and the Referee to consider it for
publication in the main journal, given that the text cannot be reduced
without loss of clarity.
 
Below we give detailed answers to each one of the original Referee's
concerns. 

For the Referee's convenience the differences between and the second
version can be found here:
https://github.com/astroandes/MACH/raw/master/paper/paper_diff.pdf

The authors.

==========



Referee: The first one concerns substance: the description of such method, and
its comparison with other estimators, is overall a relatively minor
contribution, which I would deem suitable for an appendix to a more
substantive paper that exploits the scientific value of the
estimator. 


Authors: we believe that methodological contributions in such a
fundamental problem, such as the estimation of dark matter halo
concentrations, deserves to take a protagonist role in the paper. 
However, we understand the referee's concern and have now included
more information on the possible biases of other methods in the
estimation of the mass concentration relationship.


Referee: For example, the authors report a rather strong departure
in the mass-concentration relation derived by Prada et al (2012) on
halo mass scales corresponding to L* galaxies. Such departure, if
true, would be quite intriguing, since observations should, in
principle, allow for constraints to be placed on the values of the
concentration on those scales. This issue, however, is not followed up
in the current paper. 

Authors: The new data allowed us to get a more robust probe of the
mass-concentration relationship. This time we show that there is
discrepancy between our method and the velocity method advocated by
Prada et al. 2012. We have included tests to show that the velocity
method produces biased results for the concentration as particle
number decreases. Please read the new subsection 4.2.1
departure seen


Referee; The second concern regards the method itself, as well as the detail
and exhaustiveness of the analysis. I would expect that any method to
estimate concentrations should become increasingly inaccurate and
possibly biased when the particle number is small. Furthermore, the
bias and uncertainty are likely  to also depend on the concentration
itself, since profiles (over the finite radial range probed by a
typical N-body realization) become increasingly indistinguishable for
low (or high) values of c. The analysis as reported does not discuss
any biases nor concentration dependence, a fairly significant omission
that detracts from the completeness and interest of this work. 


Authors: We tested possible concentration dependent biases on the mock data
only to find that the particle number has the most noticeable
effect. We do not include any plots but mention it in the body of the
paper. The new subsection 4.2.1 goes deep into a bias study for our
method compared to the velocity method. We find that our method is.
robust against changes in the particle number.


Referee: Finally, a comment on the method itself, where particles are ranked by
radius and compared with a theoretical cumulative mass profile. This
arrangement makes every point in the analysis dependent on the other,
so it is unclear how to assess the uncertainties on the  concentration
estimates derived from a least-squares fit. I would have liked to see
how those uncertainties (and possible biases, as argued above) depend
on particle number and on the true concentration, but there is no
mention of that in the paper. A superior alternative, in my opinion,
would be to consider the radial coordinate, r_i, of each particle
independently. The probability for each value of r_i, for given
concentration, could be easily estimated from rho(r,c)*r^2, where
rho(c,r) is a suitably normalized density profile. For any reasonable
prior, then the posterior distribution of Prob(c  given  r_i) could be
then inferred from the joint probability of all r_i and used to derive
realistic confidence inte! rvals.



Authors: Following the referee's recommendation we have prepared a new
figure 3. This figure shows the uncertainties from the MCMC method as a
fraction of particle number. These uncertainties already take into
account the correlation between points, as they come directly from a
set of points directly generated to be consistent with a given value
for the concentration. These uncertainties are below the 1% level and
are negligible compared to the uncertainties from fluctuations on the
halo particle number.

